everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week and
this one we have a GN exclusive item on
the actual chipset cost for the chips
halves like going to motherboards which
obviously contributes to the higher or
lower motherboard prices that you see
we'll also be talking about a jisun
naming nomenclature that appears to be
changing from AMD side talking about a
definitely legitimate Nintendo inspired
product as well called the POW Kitty x2
I think is the name Asus and it's new a
p/e solution which is a bfb equivalent
and then Intel improving stock coolers
I'm on a few other things before that
this video is brought to you by MSI and
the Z 490 unify ITX motherboard for
Intel 10 series CPUs the MSI z4 90 unify
ITX board benefits from a memory layout
that makes memory overclocking easy
positioning the board well for
enthusiasts who want to think around a
bench or in an ITX system the MSI z4 90
unify runs 90 amp hour stages a 10 layer
PCB and seats the memory as close to the
socket as possible all of which benefit
the overclocking experience
learn more at the link in the
description below the first news item
for the week then will be the chipset
cost to the motherboard manufacturers
the board partners are AIB is as many
people call them so AIB Partners
obviously by the chipset from Intel or
AMD they are one of Intel and a and
these largest customers out of their
entire customer base and that's because
they need to buy something to put on the
motherboards so the price of those is
variable depending on which chips that
you're talking about but we recently
started looking into chips at cost to
manufacturers which gets passed on to
customers with some kind of multiplier
on it because that's how business works
that's fair and how the game is played
but we were curious about it and it
sounds like from what we understand
today in speaking with motherboard
partners the Z 490 chipset cost despite
not having the complexity of PCIe Jun 4
is actually almost the same price as the
x5 70 chipset both as we understand it
are approaching $50 for cost to the
board partners that's one of the items
on the bomb and on the Bill of Materials
and it's higher than z3 90 was easy for
90s increased in price but doesn't
really add a whole lot of features and
that's the interesting part
z 490 vs 390 the primary differentiating
factor is the addition of some Wi-Fi
capabilities on Z 490 otherwise they are
almost identical in every other way X
570 meanwhile we don't have B fifties
cost yet but we'll work on that X 570 is
about the same so it's near the $50 mark
and from what we understand that's a
good bit more expensive than what be 450
was but as for exact details we can't
provide that right now we've got some
numbers and have a good idea but don't
really want to rush to publishing
without verifying that particularly for
50 pricey number with a couple other
people first
but the Z 490 and x5 70 cost is the one
that we verified with a few people so
we're comfortable sharing that number
and it doesn't really do anything for
you it just gives you some perspective
as to what you're paying for and why is
he 490 and X 570 boards have a price
floor that's higher than previous price
floors the chipset is a significant
portion of the cost of addition to the
other costs that are incurred when
building a motherboard next up a Jessa
and the naming nomenclature so a gia is
distilled down into and these generic
window it's encapsulated system
architecture so you've got AMD within
another initialism it seems to be
getting somewhat of a confusing revision
but that might be related to the
upcoming changes for is n3 support on
402s motherboards we're not a hundred
percent sure yet right now the upcoming
version according to hardware locks and
Tom's Hardware appears to be adding a v2
revision number and will be changing
from combo a.m. for one point zero zero
five on at least the latest version
that's out there now for a GC into a
combo AM for v2 one point zero zero zero
zero so it's presently unclear as to why
exactly this is Hardware locks reports
that even the new agey subversion has
fractured with msi using combo a.m. for
v2 one zero zero zero zero on certain
a.m. for be 550 boards and gigabyte
allegedly using combo a.m. for v2 1 0 0
1 as to what potential changes warned to
such additional versioning changes
remains to be seen but if we have the
gas it probably related to the Zen 3
stuff that's going on because that is
going to be a fracture and support so
that would kind of make sense
next up linus torvalds moving to Andy
and it's not not that Linus the other
one the other computing Linus actually
don't know whose name comes up for us to
be type Linus into Google anymore but
it's probably one of those two will be
up there along with the peanuts
character so one of the more interesting
stories this week is from Linus Torvalds
the creator of both Linux and get and
the almighty gatekeeper of the Linux
kernel in the latest announcement
regarding Linux 5.7 rc7 Torvalds added
that the most exciting thing that had
happened to him recently was moving to
an AMD based machine quote in fact the
biggest excitement for me this week was
that I just upgraded my main machine and
for the first time in about 15 years my
desktop isn't Intel based no I didn't
switch to arm yet but I'm now rocking an
AMD threader / 3970 X my all mod config
test builds are now three times faster
than they used to be which doesn't
matter so much right now
during the calming down period but I
will most certainly notice the upgrade
during the next merge window Torvalds
who is one of the most vocal people in
the industry cue the clip of his
thoughts on NVIDIA and NVIDIA has being
the single worst company we've ever
dealt with
so in media you didn't have much to
say though about the rest of his build
he also didn't tell us much about his
previous one but it's apparent that
AMD's threader per line is popular among
Linux kernel developers in the limited
testing we've done of things like code
compiled in a Windows environment even
there it's the chart leader at least for
our chromium compiled using ninja and
Klain see ya additionally recently
Wendel from level one techs who built
our server put together a machine for
Greg Hartmann another prominent Linux
kernel developer and that particular
build is also using an AMD threader for
CPU and that'd be the 39 70 X you can
check that video out on their channel if
you want to learn more about it and hear
why they made those choices
next up new arm IP and the cortex and
Malley updates that are coming out arm
recently announced its yearly updates to
its cortex and malli IPS at its arm tech
day 2020 announcing the new cortex a 78
and cortex x1 CPU designs that also
included news on the malli g 78 GPU the
new cortex a 78 builds on the previous
a 77 and 76 designs with a continued
focus on efficiency with the more or
less expected iterative or generational
performance gains brought by
architectural tweaks and a new process
note the cortex a 77 is built on seven
nanometers whereas the cortex a 78 will
be built on five nanometers the a 78 is
expected to deliver a 20% sustained
performance boost compared to the a 77
while allegedly operating within the
same thermal envelope which is an
important caveat for mobile as there's
only so many ways a smartphone can
reasonably dissipate heat and now water
cooling isn't one of them but it should
be the cortex a 78 also promises a 50%
improvement in energy efficiency over
2019 devices using a 77 based SOC s
while maintaining the same performance
arm also unveiled a new architecture in
the form of the cortex x1 which is less
focused on balancing PPA or performance
power and area and more focused on raw
performance this should allow customers
to design higher power higher wattage
solutions which will also no doubt cost
more than arms traditional IP on the
surface this seems like arm is finally
trying to close the gap between its
designs and apples lover hate Apple its
core designs and SOC s particularly the
a series have absolutely led the market
for years arm also took the wraps off
its malli G 78 new GPU the successor to
the Valhalla based Mally g77 the Mallee
G 78 will be the second GPU derived from
Arms Valhalla architecture and should
bring a 25% increase in performance the
Mallee G 78 stands to offer a 15 percent
performance density improvement as well
as scaling up to 24 cores where the
previous Mali g77 topped out at 16 the
Maui G 78 also gains a 10 percent energy
efficiency boost based on the claims
which seems somewhat paltry generation /
generation but is still a noteworthy
improvement as we cast this next story
the Maas of Nintendo's lawyers are
salivating at the idea of such easy prey
it's been hours since they've fed days
maybe even weeks since the last feeding
that is if they can get through the
usual litigation firewall that's
presented for companies based in China
the
corpses of various for hot websites do
little to save the appetites of
Nintendo's lawyers and having had their
way with Soulja Boy and his latest work
it looks like now Nintendo has
potentially another item to keep its eye
on and that's going to be the Pao kitty
x2 gluttonous ravenous and desperate
Nintendo's lawyers stand ready to pounce
at the most brazen thing to pop up in
recent history and that power Kitty x2
is probably the one they're looking at
it's a flippant unapologetic switch
copycat the power KT x2 is an arm-based
look-alike that seemingly exists to do
less savvy buyers especially in the wake
of manufacturing and supply chain issues
affecting the actual Nintendo switch and
its availability you might call this one
confusingly similar if you were a lawyer
if not just straight-up infringing the
power KT x2 uses an arm a7 quad core CPU
or arm v7 a a 7 inch IPS display with a
resolution of 1024 by 600 which is a bit
lower than the switches 1280 by 720 and
a 3000 milliamp hour battery again this
spec fails to meet the switches 43 10
milliamp hour battery but there are also
much different devices a few interesting
items of note from the marketing and the
language around the POW kitty x2 quote
can three people play together it's no
no mark of punctuation is just a
seemingly a statement can three people
play together the advertisement for the
console asks we don't know pow kitty you
tell us the Aliexpress listing promises
that we can quote enjoy a big screen of
pleasure with the x2 and external double
handles we might get demonetized for
that kind of language on YouTube when it
scans the transcript with the power KTX
to you there's no removable controllers
so no joy cons as they exist commonly
and there's no dock in lieu of joy cons
though users are allowed to use or
rather forced to use the rare
PlayStation controllers the real ones
that had XY a and B buttons on them you
all know them lots of boxes being
checked here and hook those up to the
bottom of the device here's some
marketing material summing up what the
experience is ostensibly like we'll
scroll through some of it while we go
through the rest of the story of course
the power KTX - it doesn't even
play switch games rather it features
emulators of older systems such as the
NES the Gameboy the Ness the Famicom and
more the device costs $80 and can be had
over at Aliexpress litigation seems
maybe unlikely for this one given that
it is being sold on Aliexpress but poor
Soulja Boy has stories to tell about
similar types of product issues a p/e
besides and eating's work on its
acronyms and initialisms the new ape
solution by asus is a bfb counterpart to
what asrock worked on in last week's
news story so asus seems to have joined
asrock in the list of motherboard
manufacturers going rogue and
technically doing things that intel
probably doesn't like but ends how
likely won't stop them because they need
the help right now and it's going rogue
by kind of enabling overclocking on
otherwise prohibited platforms it's not
really overclocking per se it's more of
beat clock tuning that would otherwise
be forbidden on non case cues and non z
motherboards that aside it appears that
Asus is a PE works in a similar fashion
to bfb which again we talked about last
week an as rocks implementation as rock
is allowing that the users can lock in a
higher PL 1 value that's specifically
the one that would be going from say 70
Watts up to 125 instead ACS is doing
largely the same thing just with a worse
name and fewer boards as of right now
but support for both of these features
is nebulous in the future both companies
have a feature that's technically
outside of what Intel intends to be
allowed on the boards and as ROC has a
disclaimer on its site saying that this
feature might not be supported in future
BIOS revisions and that would be if
Intel issues an update to its core BIOS
that locks out the feature and this is
something that both AMD and Intel do
multiple manufacturers find ways around
stuff they don't really get punished for
it because it's not technically breaking
the rules in the truest sense but it's
breaking the spirit of the rules and so
the loopholes get closed but no one
really gets punished for it as rock is
to its credit along with Biostar among
the most enterprising companies for
coming up with workarounds for Intel's
blocks so asus enables AP on select
400 series boards as rocks got it
unselect four hundred and three hundred
series boards and you can check their
support board list if you are curious
for more for something like say a 10 400
finally new Intel stock coolers it seems
Intel has finally decided to make some
much-needed changes to its stock coolers
that are included in the box with some
processors and these are for non k parts
now typically we recommend a cooler
purchase with nearly any type of
higher-end as in DIY enthusiast Class
CPU so we start recommending them at
about the r5 3600 and up or the i-5
series and up because and these stock
coolers Intel stock coolers really
aren't that great and you can benefit a
lot in terms of reduced noise or reduce
thermals by getting a different cooler
either way though Intel's finally making
some changes Intel for sure is the
company that has needed it the most
we've Sean and these manufacturing line
in the past for its coolers and actually
if we put that up on the screen you'll
see that the same line that and these
coolers are coming down in our footage
that's the line that Intel uses as well
both Andy and Intel have their coolers
made by cooler master which is the OEM
for their solutions it's not always
branded but sometimes you can take the
cooler apart and find a small logo
somewhere in there
so both companies use the same supplier
for their solutions Intel's changes in
the overhaul for the stock coolers do
pale in comparison to what Andy has
overhauled for its coolers in the past
but the changes are nonetheless welcome
according to tweak sound for this one
until I silently updated its boxed
coolers with a copper core it's also
been changed to an 80 watt TDP rating
for the number that's on the box there's
a new blacked-out housing as well which
is the part that tweaked down
specifically was tweeting about at Tom's
Hardware also spoke with Intel about
this and Intel confirmed that the
following SKUs will come with the
updated cooler they're listed as the eye
9 10 909 K'naan f.vii 9 10 900 f9k are
these names confusing yet the i7 10 705
710 712 90 the w12
70 the w12 50 and and that'll be it for
now the 80 watt TDP is an increase over
the previous 65 watt TDP specification
which
it's kind of if they all measure at
different ways so it's kind of a made-up
number but you get the eye as long as
the test in the same way it's still
scaling it seems to address the new Zeon
W 1200 CPUs specifically for this change
but it has come the consumer parts as
well
additionally intel has returned using
copper cores for the new coolers we have
some of these that we can potentially
show the copper core is a slug that was
in intel's older coolers that had been
removed in recent years particularly
around skylake some time and replaced
instead with just a simple aluminum core
intel has insisted on shipping coolers
with aluminum core since that but that's
changing even though the new coolers are
only shipping with newer LGA 1200 CPUs
they are of course still compatible with
LGA 1150 x
socketable CP is because the mounting
mechanism has not changed so if you
wanted to pick one up for probably 10 or
20 bucks on ebay which xx is still a
ripoff but they typically start popping
up on eBay if you want to cheap upgrade
if you're you've got a business system
or something with an Intel stock cooler
in it but honestly you should just buy a
better cooler at that point if it can
fit there's one more news item we got at
the very end of the week and what was
probably an inevitable development
Western Digital has become the target of
a class-action lawsuit over the way the
company has handled SM our hard drives
something we've been covering for a
couple of weeks now in the hardware news
recaps Western Digital is far from alone
here all of the hard drive makers have
engaged in similar practices and we'll
recap those events if you've missed the
previous three consecutive weeks that
we've been covering this so it started
with users on reddit actually noticing
that certain Western Digital red models
for NASA's we're performing poorly not
behaving correctly in certain rate
configurations or couldn't be configured
properly in ZFS arrays it was later
discovered that these Western Digital
Reds were using SMR rather than CMR and
Western Digital wasn't being exactly
forthright about it and its marketing
materials or spec sheets no sooner than
that news broke Chris Miller with block
and files was able to confirm that
certain drives from both Seagate and
Toshiba also used SMR and again neither
company was disclosing this information
to its customers the impact is mostly to
how things configure and especially
write speeds something that we've talked
about in the previous episode
seagate for its part maintains that it
was not shipping any nast rive that used
s mr and it seems that the nebulous
practice of obscuring s mr was limited
to client desktop drives toshiba's story
was more or less the same over the next
couple weeks after unwavering criticism
from both press and customers all three
component companies came forward so to
speak about using s mr well Western
Digital seems to be the most earnest
about being more transparent it promised
updates for product documentation and
benchmarks and seagate until shiva
didn't go this far all three hard drive
makers officially disclosed every drive
that uses SM our fast forward to now and
it seems the story isn't over yet
Western Digital is now going to have to
contend with litigation of the practice
as to why the lawsuit is only targeting
WD that's because WD was the only one to
hide sm r in its Nasdaq CGA and Toshiba
have not yet shipped an ass targeted
drive that doesn't use CMR so they seem
to have dodged to this bullet at least
for now until someone files a complaint
which obviously can always happen
whether or not it's valid there's also
the point that Western Digital seemed to
explicitly deny using SM are its WD red
line initially which isn't going to help
their case hattis law is heading up the
lawsuit stating that quote Western
Digital secretly switched many of its
hard drives including its WD red master
Ives to inferior shingled magnetic
recording technology this deceived and
harmed customers had it's law says
interestingly had a slaw points to users
having problems with WD Reds as early as
March 2019 due to SMR which again isn't
a good look hattis law is currently
looking for affected customers to join
the class-action lawsuit if that wasn't
enough there's also a separate class
action lawsuit unfolding in Canada
against wd-40 sub SMR that suit alleges
that WD misled customers and violated
several of canada's consumer protection
laws the lawsuit is being handled by top
class actions and is looking for an
injunction against WD as well as
collecting damages on behalf of the
plaintiffs and that'll be it for news
this week thanks for watching subscribe
for more as always you can get a store
documents access net or patriotic common
exes topside directly and we'll see you
all next time
[Music]